[Music]
you've just woken up to find britain has
been abandoned and everyone left behind
is infected with a mind-breaking virus
they only have one goal and that is to
infect and kill anyone still alive
what do you do i'm going to break down
the mistakes made what you should do
in how to beat the rage virus and 28
days later
these animal rights activists have just
broken into a research facility to
rescue chimpanzees but they're all about
to destroy the human race
this scientist warns them these animals
shouldn't be let out because they've
been infected with a highly contagious
virus but the woman releases the chimp
and gets bitten
the virus begins to take over and she
starts spewing blood over everything
including her fellow activists alright
whatever this virus is it's worse than
anything humanity has ever seen it took
only 15 seconds for her to go from
animal lover to straight up animal and
it spreads
just as quickly but this isn't even the
biggest problem here this is a maximum
containment
level 4 facility because it holds
dangerous pathogens like smallpox
avian influenza virus and russian spring
summer encephalitis a place with this
much security risk should never have
only one researcher in the building
in the middle of the night with no
safety protocols for contagion lockdown
now activists aren't always the most
logical people in the world either
historically bad decisions are made when
passionate people don't use their brains
and breaking into this place because you
feel sad for mr monkey here
is soon going to affect every human on
the planet 28 days later jen the bike
courier wakes up in a hospital and
things seem to be a little out of place
there's no hospital staff or patients
anywhere in fact the whole building is
completely abandoned
this is seriously concerning he tries to
phone looking for a signal and none of
them are working
with no one to talk to he grabs a bag
and starts scavenging
okay this guy is already thinking about
survival if i woke up in an empty
hospital
even the world's worst hangover isn't
going to explain this and going into
full-on survival mode is the right
decision
instead of trying to find out what
happened we should assume the worst and
start grabbing supplies to prepare for
the unknown now pepsi is delicious but
ultimately not going to help you survive
the brain's hunger regulation system in
the hypothalamus doesn't really register
liquid calories and going three to four
weeks without food only to break the
fast of caffeine and sugar could
severely affect your blood levels and
put your system into shock
food deprivation changes the way your
body metabolizes nutrients and when food
is reintroduced there's an abrupt shift
that shocks the body's system called
refeeding syndrome which makes you feel
weak inflates seizures
and even causes heart failure david
blaine experienced this when he famously
went without food for 44 days in a glass
box over london and they learned that
refeeding him too
quickly was actually more dangerous than
the stunt itself
this guy's really skinny and hasn't
eaten in 28 days so we need to replace
these lost electrolytes quickly or he's
in trouble
on his own his best option would be to
find electrolytes from powder packets or
coconut water
and drink them for a few days as he
slowly reintroduces solid foods into his
diet
exploring the city he discovers that
everyone in britain has fled the country
from an emergency that was so dire
soldiers have been ordered to shoot to
kill he also finds messages left behind
by those who fled and a few of the
messages mentioned some sort of
infection
oh right there's no doubt some serious
[ __ ] went down and it's tempting to go
back home
but don't as far as we know there's only
one safe place in the city and that's
the hospital
the fact that we were left there with no
incident for 28 days tells me safe to
use as a base until we learn more
it has multiple wings and rooms on the
inside so if there was a threat we can
navigate into safer subsections of the
building to protect ourselves
it also gives us a good vantage point to
safely observe the city during both the
day and the night
just because the streets are empty
doesn't necessarily mean nobody's here
i would wait in the hospital for two to
three more days before going out again
to see if there are others around
the man explores a church and finds a
mass of dead bodies he calls out and
sees the first signs of life but it's
not reassuring
something is wrong with these guys in
the hallway a pre-search running towards
him and he knocks the devil out of him
he runs away draw the attention of the
others they chase him into the street
where the man is rescued by two
survivors who deal with the problem in
the most efficient way they can think of
by blowing up a gas station whoever's
done this
is an idiot the noise from the explosion
might draw more attention and put our
lives at greater risk
i'd be thankful for their help but
saving my life doesn't mean you've
earned my trust
now this is some kind of apocalypse gas
is an extremely valuable resource
fuel has a lot of applications whether
as a weapon or as an energy supply for
vehicles generators and powered
equipment
all vital for the rebuilding of
civilization the uk has over 8 000 gas
stations which is world leading and
london alone has nearly 1 000 of them
but when all
infrastructure has collapsed every one
of these stations needs to be considered
a resource to protect and defend
they take him down into a subway and
hide out in the convenience store where
mark and selena here tell him the bad
news
a bloodborne virus started spreading in
the country before quickly overtaking
the cities and now it has killed
practically everyone
there's no more government military
radio broadcasts or even power
now that's a pretty horrifying takeaway
and it means there's no help coming
he realizes this group is his best
chance of survival and asks him to help
him find his family in dead bird the two
survivors agree to take him so long as
he follows their two rules
don't go outside alone and only travel
during the day
for a list of rules to survive the
apocalypse this is really disappointing
if i was going to bring someone into my
group i'm giving that person a longer
list
rule number one you need to find more
clothing that covers much skin as
possible to prevent infection
more skin means more exposure to the
virus and if you get infected easily
then you're an unacceptable risk to the
group so that hospital gown is not
meeting my apocalyptic dress code
rule number two cover all your holes
your face has the most pathways into the
body so if you can't get fancy gas masks
like these two then find a motorcycle
helmet to protect your face
rule number three be physically and
mentally fit to contribute this scar in
his half shaved head tells me he might
have had brain surgery and if he has bad
coordination as a result he can't defend
anyone
so i'm testing his reflexes and
situational awareness beforehand
rule number four learn quickly this guy
is inexperienced and this is the worst
place to learn on the job so a crash
course and finding the infected is
necessary before going back outside
ultimately eighty percent of these
scenarios are best survived for
precaution and planning and i want to
hit the road until all these are
addressed
the next day they walk to the man's
house and he's horrified to find his
parents have killed themselves
he finds a note in their hand saying
they left him asleep in the hospital on
purpose and he's devastated
the group decides to stay the night and
go back to the shop in the morning but
they didn't take enough precautions here
because suddenly they get attacked by
the infected neighbors the survivors
kill him quickly but the other man has
been bitten
with no remorse selena here hacks into
death before he can turn and rushes to
leave before more infected arrive
okay this woman is an absolute badass
she had zero hesitation in killing her
friend but it's not as easy as it looks
now murder isn't something you pick up
as a pastime activity but if you want to
survive
you'll need to be prepared to commit to
some terrible things for the sake of
survival
however since this virus spreads through
blood hacking someone up and flinging
their fluids everywhere
is the worst possible thing to do we
need to consider getting ranged weapons
that deal these infected
so far we've seen a lot of shops that
are left fully stocked and intact so i
would be looking for local gun shops
that i could read to keep us safer from
a distance
police stations would be even better as
they would not only have guns and ammo
but also ride shields and more
protective gear for any future attacks
they begin walking back into the city
but already this seems poorly thought
out
we haven't seen any cars around and yet
there's one part right here at the house
if i have a choice between walking
outside with the infected or driving
over them in a car
you better believe i'm looking for those
keys as they go back to the subway they
see lights in an apartment start to
flash
they enter the building and climb the
staircase to find it but they have to
take a break when jim here has a sugar
crash
the woman offers him some painkillers
and soda but the infected arrive
they race up the stairs to the top floor
where a guy ride gear shows up and
offers to help them
he fights off the infected and they
escape into the apartment
just like fuel people are a rare and
valuable resource too but they're also
dangerous and will try to use each other
to survive
these guys save their lives but it's
because they need something in return
and before helping them i'm considering
what i think they can contribute to our
collective survival before making any
promises
a larger group isn't necessarily safer
more people traveling together means
more noise more food and water required
which means we're scavenging which means
more danger it's cold-blooded but i
thank them with a care package of food
and water and leave them to their fate
the next day the courier gym is shown to
the roof where he discovers the father
has a water problem
all the tanks are empty the solar still
isn't working and it hasn't rained in
weeks
they'll dehydrate if they stay here any
longer an urban environment is the worst
place to get food and water sustainably
so long-term survival depends on moving
out of the city and looking for better
places to settle
now water is a great protection from the
affected because they can't swim
luckily london has the river thames
running through it which is considered
one of the cleanest rivers in all of
europe
if you could get a tugboat catch or a
trawler you could sell the towns from
legend to the south end without having
to worry about the infected the thames
is also home to cod herrings and bass
so fishing would be a sustainable way to
get nutrient-rich food without having to
go into the city to scavenge
later that day they hear a radio
recording being broadcasted by soldiers
stationed in manchester
who claim they have an answer to the
infection the father proposes they all
go out there to find them as they can't
survive here any longer
they head out to manchester in a taxi
loaded with supplies and the road takes
them through this dark tunnel where
inside is a huge blockade of cars
is that a backing out he drives straight
up and over it they manage to get all
the way across
but the car hits the ground hard and
gets a flat tire then these rats start
crawling around them and they realize
the critters are running away from the
infected and they're closing in
they change the tire as quickly as they
can nearly driving out of the infected's
reach and escaping with their lives
okay if you have one of the few working
cars in the entirety of london and you
drive it over a heaping pile of other
cars
your driving privileges are hereby
revoked and i'm kicking you out of the
[ __ ] car
we can change the tire but the problem
is about 60 of people don't actually
know how
if no one the car knows anything about
mechanics maybe we should stay on the
roads and take the scenic route
the group arrives at a well-stocked
supermarket and go on a shopping spree
taking everything they need for the long
haul for foodstuffs chocolates a bottle
whiskey and apples
they even offer to pay okay they're
having a good time and that's important
we can't always be serious
but also who's going to tell us to eat
our veggies if everyone's moms are dead
instead of maltesers and pepsi this is
what we should be getting
water is an obvious must and vitamin
water is even better when it comes to
food however we need to be more
selective
first i'd pack beans this may be the
single most plentiful resource for
protein that we can get
the only problem is they have to be
cooked so i'd also look for dehydrated
meats they have a long shelf life and
give us protein we can eat on the go
heart attack is also useful this stuff
lasts for years and provides a huge
amount of food energy in a very small
package
in the american civil war it was fed to
both sides precisely because
this much alone can give you as much as
100 kilocalories which doesn't sound
like a lot
but when you're rationing food it makes
a huge difference unfortunately it
tastes like
so i'm also grabbing honey not just
because it's a sweetener but because it
literally does not expire and it's great
for healing burns and wounds
and that leaves me with the last item on
my list vodka it's a great sterilizing
agent when you're in an emergency it can
make all the difference for both your
birthday party and your partly separate
lake
they stop the siphon petrol from a
tanker truck but jim here goes sneaking
to the nearby diner alone
breaking 50 of the rules for survival in
the process inside he finds a bunch of
dead bodies and an infected kid who he
then beats to death
after getting a jerry can fail they
continue to drive to manchester
they have a rest in the countryside and
set up camp but that night they have
trouble sleeping and find out that
selena here was a pharmacist who's got a
lot of drugs
she hands them some sleeping pills and
i'm already thinking this collection of
meds is going to be really useful
now medication can be a valuable
resource even if we donate all of it
they make for a good resource to bargain
with if we ever encounter other people
and need their help
but it also makes you more cautious
around this woman she didn't tell anyone
she had them
until now there hasn't been any reason
yet to be suspicious of her but when the
situation gets more serious and
disagreements develop drugging people is
an easy and subversive way to take care
of problems without conflict i'd be
careful to stay on her good side
they continue their way but arrive to
find that the city of manchester is
burning and there's no one waiting at
the blockade
the father goes looking for some
soldiers and this is the last thing
he'll ever do
as a drop of infected blood falls in his
eyes and he contracts the virus
he starts to turn and jim here steps up
to finish him but suddenly the father
gets shot to death by soldiers that come
out of hiding
they take the group back to their base
and welcome them in they quickly realize
these people are even more prepared for
the end of days than the roman catholic
church
they've got a security system of walls
generators floodlights landmines
and a kitchen that's fully stocked it's
clear if there's any chance to survive
comfortably it's going to be here
but now we have to deal with another
danger people jim here discovers they've
also got a dark secret as the major
shows him an infected soldier being kept
prisoner
they're testing to see if infected can
starve to death okay this is dangerous
but it's also necessary
these people have enough security and
manpower to start considering how to
rebuild society and studying the
infected is important in achieving this
goal
now a real enemy is not actually
infected it's the infection itself
viruses are living organisms and all
organisms are evolutionarily designed
for survival so their actions will tell
us what it needs to stay alive
the virus relies on its host to help it
spread to other people before the host
dies
so if we quarantine the human race away
from the virus until all the hosts die
it's technically a solution but anyone
that lived through 2020 knows this isn't
a practical one
these guys have a lot of gear and if
they had access to a microscope i'd want
to take samples of blood to test what
the virus might be vulnerable to
fire might kill it but how much i know
what temperature how long does it live
without a host and can it be killed with
other chemicals we won't know until we
study it then if they had any gps
devices i'd set it free 10 kilometers
away from the compound and track its
movements every hour
this gives us an excellent data set that
might reveal more about how to kill them
we could discover the more inactive
during the day
or that they never cross water and if we
track more than one we might learn they
gather in specific areas or migrate
based on certain factors
ultimately information is king to beam
this thing and we shouldn't ignore its
importance
that night the infected start running
for the building and the soldiers go
full combat mode emptying their guns to
all the infected
these guys take out everyone without
even blinking an eye it seems this is
the safest place in the whole country
until one of the soldiers gets handsy
with selena here and jim rushes the
defender but he's overpowered until the
sergeant steps in and knocks some sense
into the soldier
in private the major revealed he set up
the radio broadcast as a way to learn
women for his soldiers and use them to
repopulate the earth
jim runs to warn them and make an escape
but they're stopped with the soldiers
then the major gives them one last
chance to join but he refuses and
they're not gonna let him stand on their
way
okay we have to be more strategic than
this running around the mansion and
announcing your escape is not going to
help we need to play this under the
radar and buy ourselves time to make a
better plan
when you're forced to choose between
death or a bad night of social
interaction the choice is pretty clear i
know it's harsh but we have to make a
lot of difficult decisions for the sake
of survival
i'd pretend to support his plan but try
to convince the major to let the women
settle in first and cook for the
soldiers these guys can't even make eggs
right so i'm sure they'd agree
this would give us the opportunity to
use her bag full of valium and slip it
into everyone's food
it won't knock them out but if they
drink a lot of alcohol with it their
heart rates will slow they'll become
subdued and they might even lose control
their coordination and mobility and we
have a much better chance at escape
the next day they're brought onto the
forest to be executed but first this
soldier wants to have a little fun
before getting down to business
the sergeant gets shot by one of the
soldiers and the other soldier gets mad
but with their backs turned jim takes
his only chance to escape
they go looking for him but have no idea
he's hiding among the dead bodies and
escapes over the wall to safety
running through the forest he collapses
and sees a plane in the sky there might
still be hope for them yet but first
he has to save the girls back at the
mansion the women are told to dress up
for the soldiers but selena here
convincingly asks the change in privacy
taking the opportunity she gives the
girls drugs so she won't care what
happens next and by the time the soldier
runs in she's already taken down
that's when they hear an alarm blare
from the blockade as jim here lures them
all outside
they drive out in a military jeep to
haunt the man down he ambushes one of
them and leaves his body to be found in
a truck which the major discovers has
been sabotaged the infected start coming
and realizing he's been tricked he runs
back to the mansion
later that night jim arrives back at the
manor and sets the infected soldier free
from its chains
inside the building a few soldiers wait
for their comrades and don't see the
infected man behind them
until it's too late he breaks through
the window and infects the soldier as
the women run away
these guys stop them but when they see
the infected man running through the
mansion they split up with this guy
taking the women upstairs
okay the infected are now in the house
which makes it the most dangerous place
to be now this was a great strategy to
kill the guards but now the women are in
even more danger
they need a place where the soldiers
won't find them and the infected can't
access
and that's the guard post on the roof
here it's on an elevated platform that
most likely uses a ladder and once you
pull that up there's no way for the
infectant to climb it
let the infected man clear the house and
come down once he leaves the compound
the other soldier comes to kill the
infected man but gets blindsided by
another and gets eaten
this guy comes out of hiding and runs
right into jim's bayonet the infected
are closing in and he goes searching for
the women before they infected find them
first
he sees selena here being dragged by
another soldier and ambushes the man
brutally killing the guy jim here goes
from zero to a hundred
so fast that she thinks he's infected
too until she finally sees them up close
they all reunite and run for the cab
parked outside the girl hops into the
driver's seat but when jim opens the
door
the major is waiting inside and shoots
him the girl backs the car up into the
mansion when the infected man pulls the
major out the back window
they get back into the car and leave the
compound escaping with their lives
28 days later they take shelter in the
english countryside where jim here has
recovered from his bold wound when he
goes downstairs the girl comes in and
tells them something's coming and they
rush out
they take this giant sheet of cloth out
into a field and lay it down as a plane
flies by
seeing their signal for help but what do
you think how would you be 28 days later
let me know with a comment down below
thank you so much for watching leave a
like and subscribe
and check out the how to be playlist for
more videos like this
until next time have a damn good day